# Microschool 2023-09-11 - A is for Apples, Acorns, and Animals!

**Final Edits/Review:** 2023-10-01



## Materials/Supplies

- [x] Star Board for both kids

- [x] [Letter A & B curriculum](https://www.stephaniehathawaydesigns.com/shop-1/apple-unit-study-bundle)
  - [x] Print out pg 13 for the board, pg 15 to read aloud, pg 20 for the board, pg 21-23 for hands-on activity, pg 25 for board, pg 26 for board & outdoor activity, pg 32-34 for hands-on activity with clothes pins in craft drawer, pg 43-44 for board, 2 copies of pg 45 for fingerpainting/marker art, 3 copies of pg 46-47 (one copy for board & 2 others for art)
  
- [ ] ~~Glassware for growing acorns~~

- [x] Basket for storing acorns

- [x] Books about letter A or Fall/Apples

- [x] https://animalark.org/memberships/

- [x] [Pattern Blocks for Morning Basket](https://www.amazon.com/Melissa-Doug-Pattern-Blocks-Boards/dp/B00006JZCG/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&linkCode=sl1&tag=stephhath-20&linkId=5bbad81005d19d21537020224b8a1f9b&language=en_US&th=1)

- [x] Kitchen helpers stool

- [x] kid aprons or chef's hat

  

## Schedule

### Monday

* Lesson/Activity - A is for Apple, Hunting down A, Finding words that start with A
* Outdoor Activity - Hunt for Acorns while practicing riding scooter, go to Newlands park and have lunch there.
* Lesson/Activity - ~~Making an A out of acorns,~~ art with A
* Homesteading Project - ~~save a few acorns to try to grow an oak tree~~

#### Notes:

*The first day of school was met with some resistance from Kai. He was bummed that there were no friends to join in our adventure. He was more blaise about the hunting for acorns. Also, I believe it was too early in the season. The letter sound of A in Acorn was also challenging to introduce at this point because most other words we were focusing on (Apple, Animals, Ant, Astronaut, etc.) have a different letter sound of A. He enjoyed going to the Newslands Park and having a snack/picnic, but was still bummed when there were no friends to hang out with. Rose struggles with tricycle or scooter, so we're going to get her a balance bike to see if that will be best introduction for her.*

### Tuesday

* Lesson/Activity - The sound of A (Used [this video](https://youtu.be/im-MiVodIqA?si=Q8aoJIAq3U-IhED8)'s song), counting apples (identifying numbers - figure out what numbers Kai knows and have him count with Rose)
* Outdoor Activity - Visit Whole Foods and Learn about Apple Varieties, taste test **(Did this on Sunday instead)**
* Lesson/Activity - More sound of A
* Homesteading Project - Make homemade carmel and taste test apples with various dips (chocolate, peanut butter, and carmel) **(Did this on Sunday instead)**

#### Notes:

*I didn't feel prepared to start Homeschool so early AND prepare for my dad's 9 day visit, so I just worked with Kai in the morning on his counting and reviewing how to write uppercase and lowercase A. Then, I gave them to Jennifer to have a mostly free day while I prepped the house for my dad's long visit on Thursday this week.*

### Wednesday

* Lesson/Activity - Life cycle of Apple tree & Anatomy of an apple
* Outdoor Activity - A is for Animal! Visit the https://animalark.org/ with Friends
* Lesson/Activity - Writing A exercises
* Homesteading Project

#### Notes:

*Unfortunately, I was still anxious for my dad's visit, overwhelmed with too much to do, so I had Jennifer take the kids to the Animal Ark. I created an animal scavenger hunt for them to do based on ALL the animals there. They LOVED it! And it was even more exciting for them to have Holly's girls (Rosamie and Atticus) join.* 

### Thursday-Sunday (Unstructured Days)

* **Next Monday, 9/18**  - We did our Apple Variety Taste Test with Cosmic Crisp, Honeycrisp, Granny Smith, and Sweet Tango. I, personally, have never tried Cosmic Crisp or Sweet Tango. We approached it on a scientific level. We discussed their colors and sizes before we tasted. After each taste, we discussed the sweetness/tartness and figured out our favorites. Granny Smith was the other non-favorite. I attempted to make Caramel 2 times and failed! HAHA...I learned making candy is really difficult. Maybe we'll try again in the future.



## Activity Menu

*Here's a list of things you can choose for the kids...*

##### Videos and Shows 

- [ ] ~~The Botany of Desire PBS Documentary: This is a documentary based on the book by Michael Pollan, It explorers the the human relationship with the plant world. This documentary features the apple, the tulip, marijuana and the potato. The first 30 minutes or so are about the apple and it's very informative! https://www.amazon.com/Botany-Desire-Michael-Schwartz/dp/B004BUB2SY~~
- [x] APPLE | How Does it Grow? https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UWLmEh1HIBw Apple life cycle https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eBzTCbGnlWo
- [x] Little Bear Episode 31 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AxbsL_x_9Xo
  - Applesauce - Little Bear, Emily and Tutu bring back more than just apples from the orchard for Granny. An applesauce loving toad tags along for the ride and for the applesauce.
- [x] [Teaching Letter A Demonstration + Phonics!](https://youtu.be/im-MiVodIqA?si=Q8aoJIAq3U-IhED8) - specifically useful for the letter sound song

##### Art Projects

- I created a coloring page with the letter A, an Apple, Astronaut, and Ant to fit the song that we sang all week. They enjoyed coloring that. Kai independently was extra creative: he drew other things in the white space attempting to create a story with all three objects.



## Book List

- [ ] Apples and How They Grow by Laura Driscoll Apples Here! by Will Hubbell

- [x] The Apple Pie Tree by Zoe Hall

- [ ] Apple by Nikki McClure

- [x] One Red Apple by Karla Gudeon

- [ ] Now to Make and Apple Pie by Marjorie Priceman

- [ ] Apples, Apples Everywhere! Learning about Apple Harvests by Robin Koontz 
- [ ] Apple Cider Making Days by Ann Purmell

- [ ] The Apple Orcard Riddle by Margaret McNamara and G. Brian Karas 

- [x] Apples and Pumpkins by Anne Rockwell

- [ ] The Seasons of Arnold's Apple Tree by Gail Gibbons

- [ ] Apples by Gail Gibbons

- [ ] Apples for Everyone by Jill Esbaum

- [ ] How Do Apples Grow? by Betsy Maestro

- [ ] Secrets of the Apple Tree by Carron Brown and Alyssa Nassner

- [ ] Who Was Johnny Appleseed by Joan Holub **OR** Johnny Appleseed by Steven Kellogg **OR** Johnny Appleseed by Reeve Lindbergh



## Final Thoughts (10/1/2023)

* For Kai, it's important to have friends join almost on a daily basis. He's very social.
* It's a little challenging keeping his attention or interest. We need to increase his attention span (Marital Arts class will help, time deep focus activities and just gradually extend the time, meditation?, headphones with alpha waves, better nutrition, more sleep, etc.).
* So far, he enjoys learning through crafts, videos, or other hands-on activities (e.g., games work really well).
* Kai is creative and uses his imagination. The more I can challenge that the better. 
* I believe he prefers learning through discovery more than lecturing. If I lecture, I need to keep it short and applicable. 
* I didn't know how difficult it is to source books. They're either checked out by many or in a not nearby library. Sourcing books a week or two in advance is probably best. Also, browsing through Once Upon a Child ($1.50 books typically) might be best. 
* We haven't really incorporated the Morning Basket, Tea Time, or structured Read Aloud yet. In fact, there hasn't really been strong structure yet. I sort of feel it out, but I don't really like that because it feels disorganized. There's a happy medium we'll get to.
* If Kai isn't interested in a lesson I planned, I need to be more creative with how to react. Maybe 1 "Free Pass" card a week where he can decide to postpone a lesson to do whatever he wants to do instead. Or I can give him options on how other things to do that's related to the lesson like worksheets or a craft. I need to prepare a bin/box readily available and give it a clever name like "Mystery Box."