# Microschool 2023-09-18 - B is for Bugs & Bats!

## Schedule

### Monday

* Lesson/Activity - B is for Bugs, ~~Hunting down B,~~ Finding words that start with B
* Outdoor Activity - ~~Scavenger Hunt at the [natural selection store](https://www.naturalselectionstore.com/) for things that start with B and use piggy bank money to buy something small.~~
* Lesson/Activity - Art with B

#### Notes:

*We didn't get a chance to do the Apple Variety Taste Test, so we did it on Monday afternoon. We didn't get to do the Scavenger Hunt. We basically ran some errands with my dad. We did do B lesson and Kai practiced his writing.*

### Tuesday

* Lesson/Activity - B is for Bats! The sound of B, counting bugs (identifying numbers - figure out what numbers Kai knows and have him count with Rose)
* Outdoor Activity - Bat watching in the evening with [Spanish Springs Homeschooling Group](https://facebook.com/events/s/bat-watching/848939003329602/) at Cottonwood Park.

#### Notes:

*The sound of B was very easy for Kai to master, much more than A sounds. They were really excited to learn about Bats. They did a color activity and practiced using scissors to cut out a Bat. Then, the kids spent time with Jennifer while my dad (aka "Grumpa) and I worked on a house project. In the evening, the bat watching was super fun! Kai's friends Atticus, Rosamie, and Isa (Arlete's daughter) joined. Kai spent most of his time with Isa (first time they got close). Rose had a blast, too. We ended the school day with a Bug Bingo game with Grumpa, which they really enjoyed. It helped with bug identification. We also got the opportunity to hold and inspect some bugs in our house: an Elm Beetle and typical house moth.* 

### Wednesday

* Lesson/Activity - Review of B with some worksheets.
* Outdoor Activity - Park visit to hunt for things that start with B

### Thursday-Sunday (Unstructured Days)

* *Friday-Saturday: Autumn Equinox! We had a feast and some peach cobbler dessert (peaches came from a friend's tree). We talked about the change of seasons and the kids picked pinecones at Kings Beach to save for craft for another day. They also made half of their magic wands: I cut out hollow stars with cardboard and put contact paper on both sides. They placed beads and pom poms in the center. I them cut around the stars. I had to staple the outside. It wasn't the best design - I think clear tape will actually be much better. We finished the evening with a "fall-ish" movie: "How to Train a Dragon" was the decision.* 

## Final Thoughts (10/1/2023)

* Rose got a balance bike but she's still a tad too short to really work it.
* Visit with Grumpa was so fun for the kids. We had a more relaxed weekend, but it was still a success. Kai was definitely more focused in his lessons and he did much better. I think B was easier for him and that's probably part of his enjoyment.
* Kai started martial arts, too. We signed him up. It'll help with his self-control, discipline, attention, respect, etc. All great things! Plus, he loves it - he calls it "Ninja School".
* We're slowly building a better homeschool environment (ordered a large magnetic whiteboard and table legs to make a kid size table). 
* I'm getting more organized, but there's still more to do.
* We didn't need extra books this week because we own a few bug centered books..
* We did watch a few documentaries/videos around insects. Kai is especially interested in spiders. He learned and constantly recalls the facts about the "Fishing Spider" (a spider that hunts fish and how it walks on water).